.TH "dtsConsole.c" 3 "11 Apr 2014" "Version v1.0" "DTS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
dtsConsole.c \- \fBDTS\fP Console Interface.  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <stdio.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <unistd.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <string.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <time.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <ctype.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include 'dts.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_monAttach\fP (void *data)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_monDetach\fP (void *data)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_monConsole\fP (void *data)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDTS\fP * \fBdts\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_monitor\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
\fBDTS\fP Console Interface. 

DTSCONSOLE.C
.PP
\fBDTS\fP Console Interface - These are the methods implemented for he XML-RPC interace. These command are used from a variety of locations during the operation of the \fBDTS\fP (i.e. the queueing, logging or interactive environments.
.PP
monAttach - attach logging to the specified dtsmonitor
.PP
\fBAuthor:\fP
.RS 4
Mike Fitzpatrick, NOAO 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate:\fP
.RS 4
6/15/09 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int dts_monAttach (void * data)"
.PP
DTS_MONATTACH -- Attach the \fBDTS\fP logging output to the dtsmon at the specified host.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIdata\fP calling parameter data # 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
status (OK|ERR) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
References dtsLog().
.SS "int dts_monConsole (void * data)"
.PP
DTS_MONCONSOLE -- Request connection as a controlling console. We provide a (minimal security) password that must be supplied to grant access.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIdata\fP calling parameter data # 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
status (OK|ERR) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
References dtsLog().
.SS "int dts_monDetach (void * data)"
.PP
DTS_MODETACH -- Detach the \fBDTS\fP logging output to the current dtsmon.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIdata\fP calling parameter data # 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
status (OK|ERR) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
References dtsLog().
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for DTS from the source code.
