.TH "dtsSem.c" 3 "11 Apr 2014" "Version v1.0" "DTS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
dtsSem.c \- \fBDTS\fP utilities to manage semaphores easily.  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <sys/types.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <sys/ipc.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <sys/sem.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <semaphore.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <errno.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <pthread.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <string.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <unistd.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <stdio.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include 'dts.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "union \fBsemun\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSEM_STAT\fP   18"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSEM_INFO\fP   19"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBIPC_INFO\fP   3"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBUSE_SEMOP\fP   1"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_semInit\fP (int id, int initVal)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_semRemove\fP (int id)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_semSetVal\fP (int id, int val)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_semGetVal\fP (int id)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_semDecr\fP (int id)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_semIncr\fP (int id)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBdts_semInitId\fP (int id)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDTS\fP * \fBdts\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
\fBDTS\fP utilities to manage semaphores easily. 

DTSSEM.C -- \fBDTS\fP utilities to manage semaphores easily.
.PP
\fBAuthor:\fP
.RS 4
Mike Fitzpatrick, NOAO 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate:\fP
.RS 4
6/10/09 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int dts_semDecr (int id)"
.PP
Decrement the semaphore value. 
.PP
References dts_semGetVal().
.PP
Referenced by psReceiveFile(), psSendFile(), udtReceiveFile(), and udtSendFile().
.SS "int dts_semGetVal (int id)"
.PP
Get the value. 
.PP
Referenced by dts_getQueueCount(), dts_getQueueStat(), dts_initTransfer(), dts_nodeStat(), dts_pauseQueue(), dts_semDecr(), dts_shutdownQueue(), dts_startQueue(), dts_xferPullFile(), and dts_xferPushFile().
.SS "int dts_semIncr (int id)"
.PP
Increment the semaphore value. 
.PP
Referenced by dts_endTransfer().
.SS "int dts_semInit (int id, int initVal)"
.PP
Create and/or initialize the semaphore. 
.PP
References dts_semSetVal().
.PP
Referenced by dts_xferPullFile(), and dts_xferPushFile().
.SS "void dts_semInitId (int id)"
.PP
Initialize the semaphore interface starting ID. 
.PP
Referenced by dts_loadConfigFile().
.SS "int dts_semRemove (int id)"
.PP
Destroy the semaphore. 
.PP
Referenced by dts_xferPullFile(), and dts_xferPushFile().
.SS "int dts_semSetVal (int id, int val)"
.PP
Set the value. 
.PP
Referenced by dts_Deliver(), dts_Ingest(), dts_pauseQueue(), dts_queueRelease(), dts_semInit(), dts_setQueueCount(), dts_setQueueStat(), dts_shutdownQueue(), dts_startQueue(), and dts_stopQueue().
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for DTS from the source code.
