.TH "dtsSandbox.c" 3 "11 Apr 2014" "Version v1.0" "DTS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
dtsSandbox.c \- \fBDTS\fP file system sandbox routines.  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <stdio.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <unistd.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <string.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <time.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <ctype.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include 'dts.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBDEBUG\fP   0"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBMAX_DEPTH\fP   64"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBdts_sandboxPath\fP (char *in)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturn the sandboxed path name. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDTS\fP * \fBdts\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_monitor\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
\fBDTS\fP file system sandbox routines. 

DTSSANDBOX.C -- \fBDTS\fP file system sandbox routines.
.PP
\fBAuthor:\fP
.RS 4
Mike Fitzpatrick, NOAO 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate:\fP
.RS 4
6/15/09 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define MAX_DEPTH   64"
.PP
DTS_PATHFIXUP -- Fix an incoming path with '..' elements so we can't use those to escape the root directory. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "char* dts_sandboxPath (char * in)"
.PP
Return the sandboxed path name. 
.PP
DTS_SANDBOXPATH -- Return the sandboxed path name.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIpath\fP input path name (not chrooted) 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
sandboxed path (caller must free ptr) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
References dts_getLocalRoot(), dts_isDir(), dts_isLink(), and dts_readLink().
.PP
Referenced by dts_Access(), dts_addControlHistory(), dts_Cat(), dts_CheckDir(), dts_Checksum(), dts_Chmod(), dts_Copy(), dts_Delete(), dts_Dir(), dts_DiskFree(), dts_DiskUsed(), dts_endTransfer(), dts_FMode(), dts_FSize(), dts_FTime(), dts_getNextQueueDir(), dts_Mkdir(), dts_nodeStat(), dts_Prealloc(), dts_queueComplete(), dts_queueProcess(), dts_queueSetControl(), dts_Read(), dts_Rename(), dts_SetRoot(), dts_Stat(), dts_Touch(), psReceiveFile(), psSendFile(), udtReceiveFile(), and udtSendFile().
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for DTS from the source code.
