.TH "dtsTar.c" 3 "11 Apr 2014" "Version v1.0" "DTS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
dtsTar.c \- \fBDTS\fP interface for reading tar files (e.g. bundles).  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <stdio.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <unistd.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <sys/stat.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <sys/types.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <dirent.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <fcntl.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <strings.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <string.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include <ctype.h>\fP
.br
\fC#include 'dts.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'dtsTar.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_rtar\fP (int argc, char **argv)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdts_wtar\fP (int argc, char *argv[])"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBDTS\fP interface for writing tar files (e.g. bundles). \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
\fBDTS\fP interface for reading tar files (e.g. bundles). 

DTSTAR.C -- Unpack or list a UNIX tar format file containing .....
.PP
\fBAuthor:\fP
.RS 4
Mike Fitzpatrick, NOAO 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate:\fP
.RS 4
11/10/09
.RE
.PP
Switches: b generate only C style binary byte stream output files (default is to write a text file when the input stream is text). d print debug messages e exclude, rather than include, listed files f read from named file rather than stdin l do not try to resolve links by a file copy m do not restore file modify times n do not strip tailing blank lines from text files o omit binary files (e.g. when foreign host has incompatible binary file format) p omit the given pathname prefix when creating files r replace existing file at extraction t print name of each file matched u do not attempt to restore user id v verbose; print full description of each file x extract files (extract everything if no files listed or if -e is set)
.PP
Switches must be given in a group, in any order, e.g.:
.PP
rtar -xetvf tarfile sys/osb sys/os lib/config.h$
.PP
would extract all files from tarfile with names not beginning with sys/os or sys/osb or with names not equal to lib/config.h, printing a verbose description of each file extracted. If an exclude filename does not end with a $ all files with the given string as a prefix are excluded. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int dts_wtar (int argc, char * argv[])"
.PP
\fBDTS\fP interface for writing tar files (e.g. bundles). 
.PP
DTSWWTAR -- Write a UNIX tar format file (on disk or to stdout)
.PP
Switches: f write to named file, otherwise write to stdout t print name of each file written v verbose; print full description of each file d print debug messages o omit binary files (e.g. when foreign host has incompatible binary file format) 
.PP
References dts_isDir().
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for DTS from the source code.
