.\" @(#)dtscp.1 1.0 Feb-2013 MJF
.TH DTSCP 1 "Feb 2013" "NOAO Data Transport System"
.SH NAME
dtscp \- direct copy of files between DTS nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdtscp\fP [\fI<opts>\fP] <src> <dest>

.SH OPTIONS
The \fIdtscp\fP application accepts the following options:
.TP 6
.B \-h
Print a help summary to the terminal and exit.  No processing is done 
following this flag.

.TP 6
.B -v
verbose output flag
.TP 6
.B -q
quiet flag
.TP 6
.B -version
print build version
  
.TP 6
.B -a <alias>
set contact alias  //not completed
        
.TP 6
.B -c [fname]
set config file
.TP 6
.B -f <file>
transfer files listed in <file>
.TP 6
.B -n
no-op flag
.TP 6
.B -p
use PULL mode for transfer
.TP 6
.B -q <qname>
deliver to specified queue
.TP 6
.B -r
recursive transfer (of directories)
.TP 6
.B -t [name]
command target host name
.TP 6
.B -u
use UDT transfer mode
  
.TP 6
.B -H <port>
set hi transfer port
.TP 6
.B -L <port>
set low transfer port
.TP 6
.B -N <N>
set number of threads
.TP 6
.B -P <port>
set (RPC) command port
.TP 6
.B -R <rate>
set UDT transfer rate (Mbps)
.TP 6
.B -T
print transfer time information
  
.TP 6
.B +d
debug flag


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIdtscp\fP task is used to transfer files and/or directories between
hosts in a DTS network.  The <src> or <dest> arguments are of the form 

.in 15
[ <node> ':' ] <file_template>    

.PP
where a <node> name, if present, indicates the fully qualified domain name
(or IP address) of a machine running a DTSD (DTS Daemon) that will serve
as the source or destination machine.  The <file_template> may contain
metacharacters (e.g. a '*') that will be expanded on the source machine
to create a list of files to transfer.  Arguments may be either the
names of files or directories; Directories may be transferred
recursively if the '-r' flag is present, otherwise only the toplevel
contents of a directory will be transferred. //scp doesn't foll ow this
.PP
When copying a source file to a target file which already exists, DTSCP
will replace the contents of the target file. If DTSCP fails to complete
the transfer the user will be notified on why the transfer could not be
completed (to the best of the client's ability).
.PP
DTSCP is designed to mimic the file operation and path handling of SCP.
Some of the same ways of indicating a file transfer or a directory transfer
that are used in SCP should be simular in DTSCP.


.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.PP
DTSCP is defaulted to use the $HOME/.dts_config file on the local machine
which can be overwritten by the using the -c flag specified above.  It is
possible to set configuration file, but any flags that are set in the
command line supersede the settings for the configuration file in this
instance. DTSCP Config precedence is laid out as follows:

  specified flags > specified configuration file > default configuration file

.PP
If no default configuration file exists and no configuration file is
specified then ALL critical specified flags must be set otherwise an error
will be prompted. Keep in mind that nodes in this case must be specified as
ip addresses.  or hostnames unless aliased with the -a flag.

.PP
The following are the **CRITICAL** flags that need to be set if no
configuration file is present: High port, low port and RPC command port.

.PP
EXAMPLE configuration of .dts_config read by DTSCP:

.nf
    dts
        name      denali                        # the ALIAS
        host      denali.tuc.noao.edu 		# host address for the ALIAS
        port      8832                          # RPC COMMAND PORT
        loPort    7535                          # LOPORT
        hiPort    7600                          # HIPORT

    queue                       
        name            test            # queue name
        method          dts             # default transfer method dts or UDT
        nthreads        1               # No. of outbound threads for dts
        udt_rate                   	# UDT transfer rate
        keepalive       yes             # keep connection open?  [NYI]
.fi


.SH TRANSPORT METHODS
.PP
 
.in 2
\fBTCP Parallel Sockets\fP
.PP
DTSCP has support for multiple transport methods. The two transport methods
that are currently implemented are TCP parallel sockets and UDT. TCP
parallel sockets stripe the file into small pieces depending on the number
of threads that are declared.  This transport method can be useful for
networks with a low RTT and low packet loss rate. (Congestion Window based
method). Keep in mind that the CPU utilization for TCP is less than that
for UDT.

.in 2
\fBUDT\fP
.PP
The other transport method is called UDT which given the correct conditions
can provide greater performance over TCP parallel sockets especially when
the RTT is over 100MS (see http://udt.sourceforge.net/doc/gridnets-v3.ppt).
.PP
DTSCP's UDT has a rate congestion control option included based off of the
UDPBlast protocol. By specifying the rate for UDT it will calculate a
packet send period which will in turn affect the transfer performance. The
congestion window is also set to a large size on this mode which means it
can reach link capacity VERY QUICKLY.  (Rate based method).
.PP
If the rate is not set UDT will use the default built in UDT congestion
control which is again stated on this page
(http://udt.sourceforge.net/doc/gridnets-v3.ppt) it is also a rate based
method but estimates the bandwidth using packet pairs.  It takes 7.5
seconds using this algorithm to reach 90% of the link capacity.

.in 2
\fBPush & Pull Models\fP
.PP
The push and pull methods are implemented to provide a simple way to
workaround strict firewall configurations. For example a node named node1
with a strict firewall may be able to open outgoing socket connections but
not able to open any incoming socket connections.  Our second node, node2
doesn't have a strict firewall.
.PP
If one was to transfer files from source node2 -> destination node1 due to
the strict firewall on node1 we'd open the sockets on node2 which means the
transport mode is a push.
.PP
If one was to transfer files from source node1 -> destination node2 due to
the strict firewall on node1 we'd open the sockets on node2 still which
means the transport mode is a pull.
.PP
Push and pull determine which node opens the client sockets and which opens
the server sockets. Push (open server sockets on the source node). Pull
(open server sockets on the destination node).

	\fB// Referring to your diagram in SPIE2010_DTS.pdf page 7 of 13.\fP

.SH RENDEZVOUS MODE (UDT ONLY):
.PP
This is used to bypass firewalls, you provide two ports when UDT is ran two
client connections are made. Useful for strict firewalls or punching
through NAT.
	\fB//Not implemented yet\fP


.SH RETURN STATUS
On exit the \fBdtscp\fP dtscp will return a zero indicating success, or a 
one indicating an error.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
1)  Transfer all FITS files from the local machine to the DTS running on machine 'fred.edu' using the default configuration file

.nf
  % dtscp *.fits fred.edu:		# to DTS default dir
  % dtscp *.fits fred.edu:/data	# to system /data dir
  % dtscp -p *.fits fred.edu:		# to DTS default dir using pull method
	or
  % ls *.fits > xfer.list
  % dtscp -f xfer.list fred.edu: 	# works with full path files as well.
	or
  % dtscp -c dts.cfg *.fits fred.edu:	# custom config file
	or
  % dtscp -u -R 100 *.fits fred.edu:	# UDT rate of 100 Mbps
	or
  % dtscp -N 20 *.fits fred.edu:	# TCP over 20 sockets
    or 

  # custom config file with UDT and rate of 100 Mbps
  % dtscp -c dts.cfg -u -R 100 *.fits fred.edu: 
       
    or

  # reads alias from config transfers to the DTS default dir will
  # only work if config file has entry for the 'fred' dts node

  % dtscp *.fits fred:        

  # Transfer a single file to the remote machine
	
  % dtscp lol.fits tukana: 		    	# lol.fits to tukana root
  % dtscp /home/foo/lol.fits tukana:        	# abs path to tukana root
  % dtscp /home/foo/lol.fits tukana:/mypath/   	# abs path to tukana sandbox
  % dtscp ../lol.fits tukana: 			# rel path to tukana root
.fi
		
.TP 4
2) Copy a local file or directory to a remote queue's delivery directory:
	
.nf
   % dtscp -q DES foo.fits fred.edu:	#copy to DES queue on fred.edu
   % dtscp -r -q travis /hello/ tukana: #copy absolute directory hello to tukana
   % dtscp -r -q travis ./hello/ tukana: #copy relative directory hello to tukana
   % dtscp -p -r -q travis ./hello/ tukana: #copy relative directory hello to tukana using pull
   % dtscp -q travis -f myfiles.list tucana:  #copy file list into travis queue on tukana
.fi
	   
.in 10
\fImyfiles.list\fP can be structured with absolute paths or relative
paths that DTSCP can access.
	   
	\fB//TODO make it work with remote paths with multiple hosts.\fP
	   
.TP 4
3) Retrieve a file from a remote machine and store locally:
	
.nf
  % dtscp tukana:/lol.fits .              # copy to the relative path
  % dtscp tukana:/lol.fits /mydata/       # copy to the absolute path
.fi
	
.TP 4
4)  Retrieve FITS files on machine 'fred.edu' to the current local directory:

.nf
   % dtscp fred.edu:data/*.fits .	# DTS sandbox path
   % dtscp fred.edu:/data/*.fits .	# system absolute path
.fi

.TP 4
5)  Transfer all files in the /data directory to a remote node:

.nf
   % dtscp -r /data fred.edu:		# recursive transfer
.fi
	   
.TP 4
6)  Retrieve all files from the remote node and place in the /data directory:
	
.nf
   % dtscp -r fred.edu /data:		# recursive transfer 

   // currently won't work with root. but will with path e.g.  fred.edu:/dir2
   // 0 byte file send needs to be fixed.
.fi

.TP 4
7) Transfer all files in the /data directory from remote node to different
remote node:
	  
.nf
  % dtscp -r fred.edu:/data bob.edu:	#recursive transfer
.fi
	   
.TP 4
8) Transfer all files from a remote node to a different remote queue.

.nf
  % dtscp -q DES fred.edu:  bob.edu:  		# transfers to bob's queue DES 
  % dtscp -v -q DES fred.edu:  bob.edu:  	# verbose
  % dtscp -t bob.edu -q DES fred.edu: bob.edu:  # using cmd target host name 
		
  % dtscp -H 3001 -L 3000 -P 3005 fred.edu: bob.edu:
	    #set theHI port for destination 
	    #low port for destination
	    #RPC command port for source 
	    #push
	    
	    
  % dtscp -p -H 3001 -L 3000 -P 3005 fred.edu: bob.edu:
	    #set theHI port for source
	    #low port for source
	    #RPC command port for source 
	    #pull
.fi
	    
.TP 4
9) Transfer files from a remote node to a different remote node:

.nf
  % dtscp -p tukana2:/lol.fits tukana: #using pull
  % dtscp tukana2:lol.fits tucana: #using push
  % dtscp tukana:/home/foo/tmp/dts.foo/lol.fits tukana2: #full absolute path

  # to q DES on bob.edu   
  % dtscp -q DES fred.edu:/funny.txt fred.edu:/hello.txt bob.edu:

  # copy directory home3 into home2 recursively.
  % dtscp -r tukana2:/home3/ tukana:/home2 
.fi
	    
.tp 4
10) Multiple host submission to queue or file transfer.

.nf
  # transfer file from tukana and fred.edu to tukana2 queue travis
  % dtscp -q travis tukana:/funny.txt fred.edu:/hello.txt tukana2:

  # transfer file from tukana and fred.edu to tukana
  % dtscp tukana:/funny.txt fred.edu:/hello.txt tukana2: 
.fi



.SH BUGS
No known bugs with this release.
.SH Revision History
Feb 2013 - First public release
.SH Author
Travis Semple and Mike Fitzpatrick (NOAO), Feb 2013
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dtsq, dtsh, dtsd

