.\" @(#)dtsq_config.1 1.0 June-2012 MJF
.TH DTSQ 1 "June 2012" "NOAO Data Transport System"
.SH NAME
dtsq_config \- configuration file description for the DTSQ task
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 0
\fI$HOME/.dtsq_config\fP
\fI/<path>/<config_file>\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIdtsq\fP task ......
.PP
More descriptions .....



.SH CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.PP
The configuration file is a series of entries of the form
.nf

	queue
		<param>		<value>
		<param>		<value>
		   :		   :

.fi
The \fIqueue\fP keyword begins a new entry, blank lines and those beginning
with a '#' are treated as comments and ignored.  There is no limit to the
number of queues that may be defined in a config file.
.PP
The \fIdtsq_config\fP <param> values allowed are:

.TP 8
\fRname\fR
The name of the queue to which we will submit the data.
.TP 8
\fRhost\fR
The host name (or IP number) of the machine hosting the named queue.
.TP 8
\fRmethod\fR
The method of transferring the data to the remote DTS daemon.  Valid options
are \fIgive\fP to indicate that the DTSQ application will open the server
transport sockets, and \fIpush\fP to indicate that the remote DTS daemon will
open the server transport sockets.
.TP 8
\fRnthreads\fR
The number of transport threads used to submit the data to the remote
machine.  In general, we expect good throughput to the remote machine so
this number is usually low (e.g. 4 or less), more threads may be required
for desired performance if the remote machine is connected over a slow
or high-latency network.
.TP 8
\fRserverPort\fR
The XML-RPC server port to be used by DTSQ.
.TP 8
\fBport\fR or \fBloPort\fR
The lower transfer port.
.TP 8
\fRhiPort\fR
The upper transfer port.
.TP 8
\fRdir\fR
The DTSQ working directory.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Define an entry for a queue named 'test' on the machine 'dts.noao.edu'

.nf
    queue 
           name        test
           host        dts.noao.edu
           dir         default
           method      give
           port        2025
           nthreads    4
.fi
.PP
In this entry, 4 transfer threads starting at port 2025 on the local 
machine will be used to submit the data.  If the 'push' method had been
used, ports 2025-2028 on the machine dts.noao.edu would be opened and
the local machine will connect as a client.  The default \fR$HOME/.dtsq\fR
will be used as the DTSQ working directory.

.SH REVISIONS
June 2012 - First public release
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dtsd(1), dtscp(1), dtsh(1), dtsq(1), dtsmon(1), dtsstat(1)
