.\" @(#)dtsq.1 1.0 June-2012 MJF
.TH DTSQ 1 "June 2012" "NOAO DTS"
.SH NAME
dtsq \- submit (enqueue) data to the DTS for transport
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 0
\fBdtsq\fR [\-q <queue>] [\-f] [\-h <ip>] <path > [<path> ....]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIdtsq\fP task is used to submit files or directories to the DTS for
transport on the specified queue.  The task requires either a configuration
file to define the supported queues (the \fB$HOME/.dtsq_config\fR file is the
default, alternate files may be named with the \fB\-c <path>\fR commandline
option), or use of the cmdline flags to specify the target DTS host and queue
name.  
.PP
When invoked, the DTSQ task will attempt to contact the DTS machine hosting
the queue, verifying that the DTS daemon is responding and willing to accept
the file (i.e. there is sufficient disk space on the remote machine, the
queue is operational, etc).  If successful, transport of the file to the
remote queue directory is begun using the number of threads specified in the
configuration file (or with the \fB\-N <nthreads>\fR option).  If the
transport method is specified as \fIgive\fR then the server sockets are
opened on the local machine and the remote DTS will connect as a client to
initiate transport, in the case of a \fIpush\fR method the remote DTS will
open the server sockets and the DTSQ will connect as a client to begin
transport.






.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following commandline options are available:
.TP 12
\fB\-b\fR
bundle (i.e. tar) all files for transfer as a single data object
.TP 12
\fB\-f\fR
fork to do the data transfer
.TP 12
\fB\-m <method>\fR
specify transfer method (push | give)
.TP 12
\fB\-p <p=v>\fR
pass param/value pair
.TP 12
\fB\-s\fR
do file checksum

.TP 12
\fB\-R\fR
recover failed queue attempts
.TP 12
\fB\-V\fR
verify queue transfers

.TP 12
\fB+f\fR
disable task fork
.TP 12
\fB+s\fR
disable file checksum flag
.TP 12
\fB+d\fR
debug flag

.PP
\fBCommon DTS Options\fR
.TP 12
\fB\-\-debug <N>\fR
set debug level
.TP 12
\fB\-\-help\fR
print task help
.TP 12
\fB\-\-noop\fR
no\-op flag, print steps taken only
.TP 12
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose flag
.TP 12
\fB\-\-version\fR
print task version

.TP 12
\fB\-B\fR
use the built-on configuration file
.TP 12
\fB\-c <file>\fR
set DTSQ config file to be used
.TP 12
\fB\-q <queue>\fR
submit to specified queue
.TP 12
\fB\-t <host>\fR
name/IP address of target DTS host
.TP 12
\fB\-w <path>\fR
set directory to DTSQ working directory

.TP 12
\fB\-H <port>\fR
set hi transfer port
.TP 12
\fB\-L <port>\fR
set low transfer port
.TP 12
\fB\-N <NThreads>\fR
set number of transfer threads
.TP 12
\fB\-P <port>\fR
set communications port

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The \fIDTSQ\fP task will make use of the following environment variables if
defined:
.TP
.B DTSQ_CONFIG
The location of the DTSQ configuration file to use.  This variable will be
overridden by the commandline \fI\-c\fP option and the default file in the
user's $HOME directory.
.TP
.B DTSQ_WORKDIR
The location of the DTSQ working directory.  This variable will be
overridden by the commandline \fI\-w\fP option and the default $HOME/.dtsq
directory.


.SH RETURN STATUS
On exit the task will return the following status codes:
.nf
     0 Success
     1 Error code
.fi


.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
1) Queue a file for transport:
.nf
	% dtsq -q test /path/file.fits.fz
.fi


.SH BUGS
No known bugs at the time of writing.


.SH Revision History
June 2012 - First public release
.SH Author
Michael Fitzpatrick (fitz@noao.edu), June 2012
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dtsq_config(1), dtsd(1), dtscp(1), dtsh(1), dtsq(1), dtsmon(1), dtsstat(1)

